Threat Simulation
Threat simulation attempts to recreate threats and hazards to a system to observe and analyze how the systems or users of the system react. The suite of tools that fall under threat simulation have varied uses. Some are useful for applied studies to understand systems, others provide useful tools for experimentation, and finally others provide capabilities to support validation of solutions. There are multiple categories of threat simulation tools that are useful in modeling the different tasks and behaviors of an attacker. Failure simulators, vulnerability scanners, and exploit testing platforms are discussed in this section but refer to Chapter 14, Dealing with the Adversary, for a more in-depth discussion on modeling attackers.

▪
Failure simulators: Failure simulators simulate hazards to a system or faults in a system. Failure simulators degrade or impede the performance of some part of the test system. This provides ability to test and evaluate remedial actions and robustness measures. Netflix created a suite of tools to test cloud infrastructure’s resilience to failure.29 Other tools provide mechanisms to test degraded network conditions.30 Finally, there are a special type of failure simulator, called fuzzers, that use protocols or APIs improperly to test for robustness of solutions in receiving bad input. Fuzzers are a common tool for studying the security of software implementations looking for possible vulnerabilities. Fuzzers come in all types of flavors; fuzzer frameworks,31,32 file format fuzzers,33,34 protocol fuzzers,35,36 and application fuzzers.37,38,39

▪
Vulnerability scanners: Vulnerability scanners are tools that search for software and service signatures to determine if they have vulnerabilities. Vulnerability scanners simulate the process of attackers in finding system vulnerabilities for exploitation. However, it is important to note that vulnerability scanners are often designed as audit tools and are not designed to accurately model the stealth tactics of attackers. The results of these tools can provide a reasonable collection of knowledge that would be gained by an attacker. There are open source40 and commercial41 vulnerability scanner tools.

▪
Exploit testing platforms: Exploit testing platforms provide packages and a framework to execute exploits against known vulnerabilities. Exploit testing platforms provide a reasonable means of simulating the capabilities of attackers for performing studies or experiments. However, by the time exploits are added to exploit test platforms, they are generally far from being zero days anymore. Therefore, exploit kits are often not a good fit for modeling cutting-edge attacker tactics. Metasploit42 is a well-known open source exploit framework, which has spawned some add-ons.43,44 Canvas45 and Core Impact46 are the major commercial exploit frameworks.

Did You Know?

Zero days are vulnerabilities that are known by attackers, but unknown by the public or developers. Their term zero day originated in the warez community, which were a group of people that shared pirated software. Zero day warez software referred to software that was as yet unreleased to the public. The warez and hacker communities were cross-pollinated, which led to the term being applied to vulnerabilities.
